##

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK62051/

qlen means Query sequence length
qstart means Start of alignment in query
qend means End of alignment in query
evalue
bitscore
pident
staxid

gaps
?   	  evalue means Expect value
?  	  bitscore means Bit score

   	    pident means Percentage of identical matches



E value: The E value (expected value) is a number that describes how many times you would expect a match by chance in a database of that size. The lower the E value is, the more significant the match.


identity
The extent to which two (nucleotide or amino acid) sequences have the same residues at the same positions in an alignment, often expressed as a percentage.

Percent Identity: The percent identity is a number that describes how similar the query sequence is to the target sequence (how many characters in each sequence are identical). The higher the percent identity is, the more significant the match.

bit score
The bit score, S', is derived from the raw alignment score, S, taking the statistical properties of the scoring system into account. Because bit scores are normalized with respect to the scoring system, they can be used to compare alignment scores from different searches.


## [Clusters of Orthologous Groups (COGs)](http://clovr.org/docs/clusters-of-orthologous-groups-cogs/)
The COG protein database was generated by comparing predicted and known proteins in all completely sequenced microbial genomes to infer sets of orthologs. Each COG consists of a group of proteins found to be orthologous across at least three lineages and likely corresponds to an ancient conserved domain. For more information check out the NCBI COG website. Since the COG database is significantly smaller than the NCBI non-redundant (NR) database, it provides a fast alternative for rapidly describing the functional characteristics of one microbe or a community of microbes. Recently, there have been a few successors to the COG db including euKaryotic Orthologous Groups (KOGs) and eggNOG which provide extended analysis of more genomes including eukaryotes.

The current COG database used in CloVR is composed of 144k proteins and over 4800 COGs. While each COG has a specific functional description, it may also have one or more general category letter associations:

CELLULAR PROCESSES AND SIGNALING
[D] Cell cycle control, cell division, chromosome partitioning

[M] Cell wall/membrane/envelope biogenesis

[N] Cell motility

[O] Post-translational modification, protein turnover, and chaperones

[T] Signal transduction mechanisms

[U] Intracellular trafficking, secretion, and vesicular transport

[V] Defense mechanisms

[W] Extracellular structures

[Y] Nuclear structure

[Z] Cytoskeleton

INFORMATION STORAGE AND PROCESSING
[A] RNA processing and modification

[B] Chromatin structure and dynamics

[J] Translation, ribosomal structure and biogenesis

[K] Transcription

[L] Replication, recombination and repair

METABOLISM
[C] Energy production and conversion

[E] Amino acid transport and metabolism

[F] Nucleotide transport and metabolism

[G] Carbohydrate transport and metabolism

[H] Coenzyme transport and metabolism

[I] Lipid transport and metabolism

[P] Inorganic ion transport and metabolism

[Q] Secondary metabolites biosynthesis, transport, and catabolism

POORLY CHARACTERIZED
[R] General function prediction only

[S] Function unknown



## Resources and reference

###

https://molbiol-tools.ca/Homology.htm
The three BLAST programs that one will commonly use are BLASTN, BLASTP and BLASTX. BLASTN will compare your DNA sequence with all the DNA sequences in the nonredundant database (nr). BLASTP will compare your protein sequence with all the protein sequences in nr. In BLASTX your nucleotide sequence will be translated in all six reading frames and the products compared with the nr protein database. Several online tutorial are available including BLAST QuickStart and Basic Web BLAST from NCBI and a YouTube video.

ref
1. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK62051/
2. http://ase.tufts.edu/chemistry/walt/sepa/Activities/BLASTpractice.pdf
